Documents string escaping in redis-cli (#2007)
antirez/redis-doc: docs/manual/cli.md

    - /docs/manual/cli
---

The Redis command line interface (`redis-cli`) is a terminal program used to send commands to and read replies from the Redis server. It has two main modes: an interactive Read Eval Print Loop (REPL) mode where the user types Redis commands and receives replies, and a command mode where `redis-cli` is executed with additional arguments and the reply is printed to the standard output.

In interactive mode, `redis-cli` has basic line editing capabilities to provide a familiar tyPING experience.

To launch the program in special modes, you can use several options, including:

> * Simulate a replica and print the replication stream it receives from the primary.
> 
> * Check the latency of a Redis server and display statistics. 
> 
> * Request ASCII-art spectrogram of latency samples and frequencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Simulate a replica and print the replication stream it receives from the primary.
* Check the latency of a Redis server and display statistics. 
* Request ASCII-art spectrogram of latency samples and frequencies.
```

    $ cat /tmp/output.txt
    8

Note that `(integer)` is omitted from the output because `redis-cli` detects
the output is no longer written to the terminal. You can force raw output

> even on the terminal with the `--raw` option:

Reviewer: Feel free to concat lines and break after a period if you're editing stuff (i.e. no need to break at 80 chars)

Author: thank you

You can force human readable output when writing to a file or in
pipe to other commands by using `--no-raw`.

> ## String escaping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## String quoting and escaping
```

> When using escape sequences, ensure that you enclose them in double (`"`) or single (`'`) quotation marks. Escape sequences are used to put nonprintable characters in character and string literals. Examples of using escape sequences to display characters include tab, carriage return, backspace, and many more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `redis-cli` parses a command, whitespace characters automatically delimit the arguments.
In interactive mode, a newline sends the command for parsing and execution.
To input string values that contain whitespaces or non-printable characters, you can use quoted and escaped strings.

Quoted string values are enclosed in double (`"`) or single (`'`) quotation marks.
Escape sequences are used to put nonprintable characters in character and string literals.
```

An escape sequence contains a backslash (`\`) symbol followed by one of the escape sequence characters or an octal or hexadecimal number. 
A hexadecimal escape sequence contains an `x` followed by one or more hexadecimal digits (0-9, A-F, a-f). An octal escape sequence uses up to three octal digits (0-7). 

> Escape sequences can include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doubly-quoted strings support the following escape sequences:
```

> * `\n` - newline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `\"` - double-quote
* `\n` - newline
```

* `\r` - carriage return
* `\t` - horizontal tab
* `\b` - backspace
* `\a` - alert
* `\\` - backslash
* `\xhh` - any ASCII character represented by a hexadecimal number (_hh_)

> Double quotes allow you to incorporate escape sequences using `\`. Single quotes assume the string is literal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single quotes assume the string is literal, and allow only the following escape sequences:
* `\'` - single quote
* `\\` - backslash
```

For example, to return `Hello World` on two lines:

```
127.0.0.1:6379> SET mykey "Hello\nWorld"
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> GET mykey
Hello
World
```

When you input strings that contain single or double quotes, as you might in passwords, for example, escape the string, like so: 

```

>  AUTH some_admin_user ">^8T>6Na{u|jp>+v\"55\@_;OU(OR]7mbAYGqsfyu48(j'%hQH7;v*f1H${*gD(Se'"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
127.0.0.1:6379> AUTH some_admin_user ">^8T>6Na{u|jp>+v\"55\@_;OU(OR]7mbAYGqsfyu48(j'%hQH7;v*f1H${*gD(Se'"
```

    $ redis-cli -a myUnguessablePazzzzzword123 PING
    PONG

> > **NOTE:** For security reasons, provide the password to `redis-cli` automatically via the

Reviewer: Why the leading `>`?

We should standardize how we do notes (shortcodes is probably our way to go)

Author: remnant of an old practice of mine. it adds a line to the side. can remove. no problem.
